- [Instructor] In today's world of containerization,
Docker images are one of the most common
build patterns for applications,
and Spring Boot based applications are no different.
Building a Docker image with Spring Boot
is another one of those freebies you get
from the Spring initializer.
The build script, depending on your dependency management
and build system of choice,
provides a path to build an image.
For Maven,
you simply use the Spring Boot plugin
with the build hyphen image goal.
For Gradle, you can use the boot build image argument
for the build command itself.
As with any application framework or technology,
you can always build a Dockerfile
and control the actual life cycle
of the Docker build process,
which we will do together here in a moment.
Now there are several reasons for doing this,
but the primary reason is more control.
You have control over how and what
you put into your final image.
You get control over the entire image life cycle,
including building and testing,
which sometimes you'll want to run in parallel,
especially if you have to build
many, many images as part of your CI/CD pipeline.
This also gives you an opportunity for smaller images,
which goes back to control.
By only including
the output of the build in the final image,
you have a chance to reduce the size of your total image.
In addition, your final image only needs the JRE,
not the full JDK, nor does it need Maven or Gradle.
So obviously it's going to be a smaller image
from that perspective.
Now, one of the primary reasons that I choose to do this
is for full control over the base images.
Oftentimes, you build security approved images
and use them across your entire suite of applications.
By building your own Dockerfile,
you get this level of control
because you set the base image.
So let's start by creating our own Dockerfile.
In our booting web directory,
I want you to create a new file.
We're going to call that file Dockerfile.
Now this is the default.
You don't have to choose that,
but if you don't choose it,
you have to pass it to the build argument.
Now in our Dockerfile,
the first thing that we need to do
is we need to do a from command,
and we're going to use a Maven image because we need Maven,
and I don't really want to install it as part of this.
We're going to create a builder based on this.
Again, this is kind of the benefit of controlling this.
I don't care how big this image is really,
because I'm not going to ship this to production.
Now I'm going to set an argument here,
and this is just a standard practice
that I employ across all of my builds.
This allows me to have control over version changes
in one place instead of multiple, if it applies.
In this case, it's not really going to make a difference.
It's just how I do things, so I continue here.
Now we're going to set our work there,
and in this case, we're going to call it build.
And we're going to copy from our local directory the POM XML
into the build directory in our image.
Likewise, we're going to copy source into the build directory
as well in a source location.
Now we will run Maven clean package.
Going to do one more thing here to make the next step easier.
I'm going to copy target booting web hyphen.
Now here's where I'm going to use that version value.
Dot jar.
And that's the pattern
that Maven based Spring Boot artifacts build in.
And I'm going to copy it to the same location,
but I'm going to rename it to be application dot jar.
Now I'm going to set up my actual final image.
So this time I will use open JDK,
11 dot 0 dot eight JRE slim.
So I'm going to use a slim version
of the JRE image instead of a JDK.
I'm going to set up a workdir here.
I'm just going to use app.
And now I'm going to copy from the builder
in build target application dot jar to the app directory.
And now I'll set a command of Java hyphen jar
app application dot jar, and that's it.
We're done.
So let's hop over to a terminal.
Now in the terminal,
I want you to go into the directory for booting web,
and you're going to type here
Docker build dash t booting web dot.
So what I'm saying here is build a Docker image
tagged with booting web,
and that'll let us see it running later,
and just build the current Dockerfile.
Now, before I hit enter,
there's two things I want to tell you.
First of all,
there's going to be a lot of output and time that this takes
to build these images, especially if it's your first time.
So I encourage you to read through the output
and understand what's going on.
Second.
This is the last time in this course
that you must use Docker.
The other times that I use it,
you can install the software locally,
if for some reason you don't like using Docker.
I prefer to use it
because it's how I worked every single day.
So with that being said,
let's hit enter and take a look at the data.
Now, your output may look a little bit different,
but take note, if you have an error
that indicates that the jar file could not be found,
that's an artifact of the way that my ID
is different from yours within my operating system.
It's a very easy thing to fix.
Simply run Maven clean package,
allow the package to happen so that the jar is built,
and then rerun your Docker command.
And you should then see outputs
similar to what we have on the screen.
All right, now that we've run,
and your output may look a little bit different
based on what you've done before on your machine.
But in this case, let's run a Docker run dash p.
This is going to expose our port,
so 8,080 is going to map to 8,080 dash d booting web.
And our application is now up and running.
And we can validate that in a web browser.
If you refresh on 8,000,
you'll see that nothing is there
because that's where we're at before.
Let's go to 8,080.
And you'll see that we're now returning data.
One more thing that you can do to take a look at this
is you can run a Docker PS command.
And you will see
that we have an image running called booting web,
and that's what we expected.
Let's go ahead and stop this image by doing a Docker stop.
We'll copy this image ID.
Allow Docker to stop this image.
And we can go back to our web browser
and nothing is received.
That's what is expected.
And we've just built our application using Docker.